<h1 align="center">How to Use Ontology CLI</h1>
<p align="center" class="version">Version 0.1</p>

## 1. What is Ontology CLI

Ontology CLI is an Ontology node command line client for starting and managing Ontology nodes, managing user wallets, sending transactions, and deploying and invoking smart contracts.

Function list:
1. Start and manage Ontology nodes
2. Wallet management
3. Asset management
4. Query information of the blockchain
5. Smart contract deployment and invocation
6. Block import and export
7. Build, sign, and send a transaction
8. Generate multi-signature address
9. Multi-sign to a transaction
10. Display transaction information

For more detailed information, please refer to [Ontology CLI Instruction](https://github.com/ontio/ontology/blob/master/docs/specifications/cli_user_guide.md).

## 2. Start and manage Ontology nodes

### 2.1 How to install Ontology

You can download the latest Ontology binary file with

```
curl https://dev.ont.io/ontology_install | sh
```

### 2.2 Parameters

**System parameters:**

Ontology CLI has a lot of startup parameters for configuring some of the Ontology node's behavior. Use ./Ontology -help to see all startup parameters supported by the Ontology CLI node. If Ontology CLI is started without any parameters, it will access the Ontology main network as a synchronous node by default.

```
./ontology
```

--config The config parameter specifies the file path of the genesis block for the current Ontolgy node. 

--loglevel The loglevel parameter is used to set the log level the Ontology outputs. 

--data-dir The data-dir parameter specifies the storage path of the block data. The default value is "./Chain".

**Account parameters:**

--wallet, -w The wallet parameter is used to specify the wallet file path when the Ontology node starts. The default value is "./wallet.dat".

--account, -a The account parameter is used to specify the account address when the Ontology node starts. If the account is null, it uses the wallet default account.

--password, -p The password parameter is used to specify the account password when Ontology node starts. 

**Transaction parameters:**

--gasprice The gasprice parameter is used to set the lowest gasprice of the current node transaction pool to accept transactions. Transactions below this gasprice will be discarded. The default value is 500(0 in testmode).

--gaslimit The gaslimit parameter is used to set the gaslimit of the current node transaction pool to accept transactions. Transactions below this gaslimit will be discarded. The default value is 20000.

### 2.3 Node deployment 

MainNet synchronization node deployment:
```
./ontology
```

TestNet synchronization node deployment:
```
./ontology --networkid 2
```

PrivateNet node (single-node) deployment:

Before initializing a PrivateNet, you need a wallet file - wallet.dat. (wallet.dat can be generated by ./ontology account add -d)
```
./ontology --testmode
```

## 3. Wallet management

Wallet management commands can be used to add, view, modify, delete, and import account. You can use ./Ontology account --help command to view help information of wallet management command.

### 3.1 Wallet management  

Default account: Each wallet has a default account, which is generally the first account added. The default account cannot be deleted, you can modify the default account by ./Ontology account set command.

**wallet parameters:**

--signature-scheme,s The signature-scheme parameter is used to specify the key signature scheme. 

--default The default parameter uses the system's default key scheme. 

--label Label is used to set labels for newly created accounts for easy and fast use of accounts. 

--wallet The wallet parameter specifies the wallet file path. If the wallet file does not exist, a new wallet file will be automatically created.

--ontid The parameter is used to create ONT ID instead of account.

Add an account
```
./ontology account add --default
```

View account info 
```
./ontology account list
```

Modify account info
```
./ontology account set
```

Delete an account
```
/ontology account del <address|index|label>
```

Import an account
```
./ontology account import -s=./source_wallet.dat
```

## 4. Asset management 

Asset management commands can check account balance, ONT/ONG transfers, extract ONG, and view unbound ONG.

Check Your Account Balance
```
./Ontology asset balance <address|index|label>
```

**Transfer parameters:**

--wallet, -w Wallet specifies the transfer-out account wallet path. The default value is: "./wallet.dat".

--gasprice The gasprice parameter specifies the gas price of the transfer transaction. 

--gaslimit The gaslimit parameter specifies the gas limit of the transfer transaction. 

--asset The asset parameter specifies the asset type of the transfer. ont indicates the ONT and ong indicates the ONG. The default value is ont.

--from The from parameter specifies the transfer-out account address.

--to The to parameter specifies the transfer-in account address.

--amount The amount parameter specifies the transfer amount. 

**Transfer asset**
```
./ontology asset transfer --from=<address|index|label> --to=<address|index|label> --amount=XXX --asset=ont
```

**Authorize transfer:** A user may authorize others to transfer money from his account, and he can specify the transfer amount when authorizing the transfer.

```
./Ontology asset approve --from=<address|index|label> --to=<address|index|label> --amount=XXX --asset=ont
``` 

Check Authorized Transfer Balance
```
./ontology asset allowance --from=<address|index|label> --to=<address|index|label>
```

## 5. Query information of the blockchain

Query information command can query information such as blocks, transactions, and transaction executions. You can use the ./Ontology info block --help command to view help information.

Query block information
```
./Ontology info block <height|blockHash>
```

Query transaction information
```
./Ontology info tx <TxHash>
```

Query transaction execution information
```
./Ontology info status <TxHash>
```

## 6. Smart contract deployment and invocation

Smart contract operations support the deployment of NeoVM smart contract, and the pre-execution and execution of NeoVM smart contract.

### 6.1 Smart contract deployment

Before smart deployment, you need to compile the NeoVM contract compiler such as [SmartX](http://smartx.ont.io/) and save the compiled code in a local text file.

**Smart contract deployment parameters:**

--wallet, -w The wallet parameter specifies the wallet path of account for deploying smart contracts. Default: "./wallet.dat".

--account, -a The account parameter specifies the account that a contract deploys.

--gasprice The gasprice parameter specifies the gas price of the transfer transaction. 

--gaslimit The gaslimit parameter specifies the gas limit of the transfer transaction. 

For contract deployments, the gaslimit value must be greater than 20000000, and there must be sufficient ONG balance in the account.

--needstore The needstore parameter specifies whether the smart contract needs to use persistent storage. If needed, this parameter is required. The default is not used.

--code The code parameter specifies the code path of a smart contract.

--name The name parameter specifies the name of a smart contract.

--version The version parameter specifies the version number of a smart contract.

--author The author parameter specifies the author information of a smart contract.

--email The email parameter specifies the contact email of a smart contract.

--desc The desc parameter specifies the description of a smart contract.

--prepare, -p The prepare parameter indicates that the current deploy is a pre-deploy contract. 

**Smart contract deployment**
```
./Ontology contract deploy --name=xxx --code=xxx --author=xxx --desc=xxx --email=xxx --needstore --gaslimit=100000000
```

After deployment, the TxHash of the transaction and the contract address will be returned. For example:
```
Deploy contract:
Contract Address:806fbee1fcfb554af47844edd4d4ce2918737747
TxHash:99d719f51837acfa48f9cd2a21983fb993bc8d5a763b497802f7b872be2338fe
```

### 6.2 Smart contract execution

**Smart contract execution parameters:**

--wallet, -w The wallet parameter specifies the account wallet path for smart contract execution. Default: "./wallet.dat".

--account, -a The account parameter specifies the account that will execute the contract.

--gasprice The gasprice parameter specifies the gas price of the transfer transaction. 

--gaslimit The gaslimit parameter specifies the gas limit of the transfer transaction. 

--address The address parameter specifies the calling contract address.

--params The params parameter is used to input the parameters of the contract invocation. The input parameters need to be encoded as described above.

--prepare, -p The prepare parameter indicates that the current execution is a pre-executed contract. The transactions executed will not be packaged into blocks, nor will they consume any ONG. Pre-execution will return the contract method's return value, as well as the gas limit required for the current call.

--return The return parameter is used with the --prepare parameter, which parses the return value of the contract by the return type of the --return parameter when the pre-execution is performed.

**Smart contract pre-execution**
```
./Ontology contract invoke --address=XXX --params=XXX --return=XXX --p
```

Return example:
```
Contract invoke successfully
Gas consumed:20000
Return:0
```

**Smart contract execution**
```
./Ontology contract invoke --address=XXX --params=XXX --gaslimit=XXX
```

Before the smart contract is executed, the gas limit required by the current execution can be calculated through pre-execution to avoid execution failure due to insufficient ONG balance.

## 7. Build, sign, and send a transaction

Build transaction command can build transaction raw data, such as transfer transaction, approve tansaction, and so on. Note that before send to Ontology, the transaction after built should be signed by private key.

### 7.1 Build a transaction

**The parameters of building transfer transaction:**

--wallet, -w Wallet specifies the transfer-out account wallet path. The default value is: "./wallet.dat".

--gasprice The gasprice parameter specifies the gas price of the transfer transaction. 

--gaslimit The gaslimit parameter specifies the gas limit of the transfer transaction. 

--asset The asset parameter specifies the asset type of the transfer. Ont indicates the ONT and ong indicates the ONG. The default value is ont.

--from The from parameter specifies the transfer-out account address.

--to The to parameter specifies the transfer-in account address.

--amount The amount parameter specifies the transfer amount. 

--payer payer parameter specifies the transaction fee payer. If don't specifies, using signer account default.

**Build a transaction**
```
./ontology buildtx transfer --from=ARVVxBPGySL56CvSSWfjRVVyZYpNZ7zp48 --to=AaCe8nVkMRABnp5YgEjYZ9E5KYCxks2uce --amount=10
```

Return example:
```
Transfer raw tx:
00d1d376865bf401000000000000204e0000000000006a987e044e01e3b71f9bb60df57ab0458215ef0f6e00c66b6a146a987e044e01e3b71f9bb60df57ab0458215ef0fc86a14ca216237583e7c32ba82ca352ecc30782f5a902dc86a5ac86c51c1087472616e736665721400000000000000000000000000000000000000010068164f6e746f6c6f67792e4e61746976652e496e766f6b650000
```

### 7.2 Sign a transaction

The transaction build by buildtx command, should be signed before send to Ontology. Note that if transction fee payer is different with transfer from, both account should sign to the transaction.

**The parameters of signing a transaction**

--wallet, -w Wallet specifies the wallet path of authorized account. The default value is: "./wallet.dat".

--account, a account parameter specifies signature account, if not specified, the default account of wallet will be used.

--send --send parameter specifies whether send transaction to Ontology after signed.

--prepare prepare parameter specifies whether prepare execute transaction, without send to Ontology.

--rpcport The rpcport parameter specifies the port number to which the RPC server is bound. The default is 20336.

**Sign a transaction**
```
./ontology sigtx --account=ARVVxBPGySL56CvSSWfjRVVyZYpNZ7zp48 00d11b56875bf401000000000000204e0000000000006a987e044e01e3b71f9bb60df57ab0458215ef0f8e00c66b6a146a987e044e01e3b71f9bb60df57ab0458215ef0fc86a140000000000000000000000000000000000000001c86a146a987e044e01e3b71f9bb60df57ab0458215ef0fc86a071f57ad26643f08c86c0c7472616e7366657246726f6d1400000000000000000000000000000000000000020068164f6e746f6c6f67792e4e61746976652e496e766f6b650000
```

**Return example**
```
RawTx after signed:
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
```

### 7.3 Send a transaction

The transaction after being signed can be sent to Ontology via sendtx command.

**Send a transaction**
```
./ontology sendtx 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
```

Return example:
```
TxHash:f8ea91da985af249e808913b6398150079cdfb02273146e4eb69c43947a42db2

Tip:
Using './ontology info status f8ea91da985af249e808913b6398150079cdfb02273146e4eb69c43947a42db2' to query transaction status.
```

### 7.4 Display transaction information 

The information of transaction field can be show via showtx command.

```
./ontology showtx 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
```

Return example:
```
{
"Version": 0,
"Nonce": 1535598340,
"GasPrice": 500,
"GasLimit": 20000,
"Payer": "Ae4cxJiubmgueAVtNbjpmm2AGNgdKP6Ea7",
"TxType": 209,
"Payload": {
"Code": "00c66b6a14f47d92d27d02b93d21f8af16c9f05a99d128dd5ac86a14ca216237583e7c32ba82ca352ecc30782f5a902dc86a5ac86c51c1087472616e736665721400000000000000000000000000000000000000010068164f6e746f6c6f67792e4e61746976652e496e766f6b65",
"GasLimit": 0
},
"Attributes": [],
"Sigs": [
{
"PubKeys": [
"02b2b9fb60a0add9ef6715ffbac8bc7e81cb47cd06c157c19e6a858859c0158231",
"03c0c30f11c7fc1396e8595bf2e339d553d728ea6f21ae831e8ab704ca14fe8a56"
],
"M": 1,
"SigData": [
"9dd2a46277f96566b9e9b4fc354be90b61776c58125cfbf36e770b1b1d50a16febad4bfadfc966fa575e90acf3b8308d7a0f637260b31321cb7ef6f741364d0e"
]
}
],
"Hash": "34559b63187d7ddf5a17ac7a2dabb8fcaa1bea6676eba78a174d038ff3c66f15",
"Height": 0
}
```

```
Please feel free to give any suggestion
Contact: Yue Zhao 
Wechat: 16621171248
Email: messixaviinsta0303@163.com
```
